+++
title = "pbe: visual facelift"
slug = "pbe2"
date = 2023-12-05
description = "personal log of website changes which document me fighting and optimizing CSS"
+++

Before yesterday, I've had a hate-hate relationship with CSS. I never gave it a
serious chance to CSS and it in return, never worked well with me. We have
started understanding each other since yesterday. I started exploring with the
aim to improve visual design for the website and make it look clean and crisp.

I started with an easy one - favicon. Favicons are not a big deal unless you
have 200 tabs open on a browser window. It creates a minimalistic branding
which goes a long way especially when "thinking fast". I highly recommend
favicon.io generator[^1] which takes in simple inputs to create assets and
provides documentation about enabling the favicons.

As I was going through `<meta>` tags for website, I quickly added theme
color[^2] which makes android (and in some case desktop) view cohesive. Again,
like the favicon, theme colors are underrated for the value they provide to
subconscious design.

As for other things related to `<meta>` tags, OpenGraph Protocol makes the
blog sharing look good on most platforms. With `og:title`, `og:description`, 
`og:url` and `og:image` most of the social platforms create a card layout to
show shared content in a better way. Going ahead I can add an `og:image` per
post for customization. For next fun "side project", I plan on using an LLM to
generate an image for each post.

Next set of improvements are towards making the CSS for all significant HTML
tags that get generated based on my markdown usage. This involves headings,
links, images, blockquotes, tables and codeblocks. While I was at it, I made
some minor changes to website layout which improves container width, mobile
view for website, top navigation, footer and section pages.

I'm very happy with way the website looks right now and I want to focus on
getting to adding good content in near future.

---

### footnotes

[^1]: [favicon.io generator](https://favicon.io/favicon-generator/) is a free
online tool that works.

[^2]: Theme colors made a slight but noticeable change to website look.

Before theme color
![before-theme-color](/img/before-theme-color.png)

After theme color addition on `<head>`
![after-theme-color](/img/after-theme-color.png)
