+++
title = "2024"
slug = "2024"
date = 2024-01-09
description = "what's up"
+++

## Embracing the oddities

There is something strange about "new year".

There is hope that something new is going to begin and it might be better than
status quo. There is quiet that happens at work when people go on annual leaves
and there is suddenly time available to work on stuff we wanted to do but could
never get to. There is pleasant weather in Dubai which makes you want to go out
often. There is happiness of spending extra time with family. This cocktail of
feelings happens every year towards the end of the year but never otherwise. It
is reasonable but strange.

> maybe, most of us long for closure and an year end denotes that

Personally, I don't feel anything drastically changes when we start a new year.
Except when we make efforts to change something. And a year end brings energy,
which is not just intrinsic but from others around me to plan for better
outcomes. After loosing out for so many years, this year I've learnt to embrace
this "external" energy, suppress the "weirdness" of new year and plan a few
outcomes (short and long term). Anyway at work, we get graded for "what did we
do last year" and we need to plan our OKRs for new year. So, why not!

About intrinsic energy, 2024 presents itself with a new role in the same old job
at Majid Al Futtaim. I'm still an Engineering Manager but I will be working on
building and maintaining "Core Datasets". This team didn't exist in 2023 which
means I would be looking at structuring a team, creating a roadmap, setting
objectives for this year (along with others) and deciding they way of working
for this team. I'm also excited about writing more code and returning back to
core data engineering team after managing a software project for a good year and
half. More to look forward to in the new role and hence, the hope factor is at
all time high.

## OKR-azy 2024

In 2023, I dabbled with "bullet journal method" to cope up with "stack overflow"
I experienced with my `TODO` list. The things that drew me to use this technique
was weekly/monthly reviews for big picture and tracking metrics that I can
customize for my needs. Before this I was a pen-paper guy with loose A4 sheets
having a mix of technical diagrams, obligatory meeting doodles and a list of
items that I needed to do. I didn't continue bullet journal as long to make it
a habit and churned away from it, for reasons unknown to me. In retrospect, I
like pen and paper for doodling and scribbles but I don't have the discipline of
journal writing everyday. Couple of things that stuck with me was:
- weekly, monthly and yearly reviews force us to zoom out and think big picture
- having a log of what I need to do and what I did was more important than a
`TODO` list
- there was an innate satisfaction in crossing an item which was completed

Point 2 and 3 are worth a separate blog in itself, so more on that later. I'm
not surprised about point 1 though. I have always liked setting goals and trying
to track and do them in a phased approach. Weekly, monthly and yearly reviews in
bullet journal method is another manifestation of goal setting and tracking.
Not much to my amaze, when I did performance review starting this year, I felt
similar satisfaction on scoring myself against the goals as scratching a done
task in the journal list.

With inspiration from my manager ([@mtrencseni](https://github.com/mtrencseni)
has been doing personal OKRs from many years) and acquired chi for new years
resolutions from everyone around me, I decided to write down my personal OKRs
for 2024. I'll publish an update on this in coming days. But at a very high
level, I'm prioritizing to improve my health, gain financial independence, and
get better at programming. As a person, I want to listen more, speak less, be
more patient, read more, write more, and learn to say "no".
