---
title: "Notes - v0.1.0"
heading: "Notes - v0.1.0"
slug: "2019-12-22T20:28:00+04:00"

author: "hrmnjt"
date: 2019-12-22T20:28:00+04:00

draft: true
showpagemeta: true

description: "Notes - v0.1.0"
tags: ["sttp"]
categories: ["micro"]
---

⚠️ **Time Capsule Alert!** ⚠️

This post is a digital fossil excavated from my ancient blog archives. Like finding your embarrassing high school photos, this content represents Past Me™ (who knew significantly less than Current Me).

Side effects may include: broken links, missing images, and opinions I've since upgraded. My brain has received several critical software updates since writing this.

For the latest version of my thoughts (now with 73% fewer bugs!), please check out my more recent posts.

---

# Notes - v0.1.0

I always think about putting thought together and need a scribbling place. For stuff that can be shared, this section of my blog works well. For the private stuff, not so much though.

 One thing I'm very concerned about is the promise of a software or tool which takes data from users. I've become more and more cognizant about my online presence in the recent times.

What do you say to a note taking application which:
- stays on the terminal
- version controls your notes
- has private notes that people can't decipher online
- can be accessed on devices where you code
- and is open source

I would say its a good place to save private notes. Though there are multiple such applications which exist. But the problem I've faced is they all want to become products which want to be sold. I don't want to pay them and share my data with them even if they store encrypted notes.

So I started with this last night.

Now, my whole idea was based on encrypting a markdown file and push it github and no-one can understand the gibberish. Best way to think is to actually start making this. Hence, I started a repo and started with the basic code.

Here's the link - https://github.com/hrmnjt/notes

In half an hour I had setup the initial Proof of concept which works fine and is usable. But does it checks all the boxes that I wanted to make - not yet.

## So what now?

There are couple thing that I want to do before I move ahead. Design decisions. Also, I don't know if such a thing exist but I, definitely, am planning on below:
- check out for inspiration
- design the solution
- do the below that I listed on the repo originally, if it is still relevant after above two.

QQ: What do you say to a github repo which you can fork and use as a note taking repo with private notes?


## ToDos:
- [ ] Tidy up
- [ ] Docs
- [ ] Improve the project structure. Fixate on design decisions
- [ ] Add CLI tool and args for usage
- [ ] Handle exceptions and make the code resilient
- [ ] Requirement management
- [ ] Features
    - [ ] Add options to CRUD notes
    - [ ] Add different key options
    - [ ] Add different encryption formats
    - [ ] Find notes
    - [ ] Interactive mode
    - [ ] Custom backup providers - git based
- [ ] Improve code convention and style
    - [ ] Add comments
    - [ ] Unit tests
    - [ ] DRY
    - [ ] Contribution guidelines
- [ ] Packaging
