+++
title = "notes 1.0.0"
slug = "notesv1"
date = 2020-05-02
migrated = true
description = "Notes - v1.0.0"
+++

Months ago, I started on an implementation for a note taking command line
utility that would work for my use case. It took me some time now to find time
between work and COVID to make enough progress on my side project/utility.

[Read about context](https://hrmn.in/microblog/2019-12-22t202800+0400/)

I've now finally been able to write and complete the 1st version of the basic
feature list that I expected to cover.

Git repository - https://github.com/hrmnjt/notes

Post installing notes; one can follow the below steps to interact with the
notes CLI (command line interface).

- Print usage or help text - `notes`
- Listing existing notes - `notes ls`
- Creating a new private note - `notes new newnote1`
- Creating a new public note - `notes new --file-type public new-pub-note`
- Syncing notes or create a checkpoint - `notes sync`

I've been missing notes when it didn't exist. Since, I wanted this solution to
not be outside my editor, I've been using scratch files to take notes and have
been loosing notes as well. There are many solution that already exist and are
useful but leaving the editor is not natural and hence never continues more
than specific instances.

If you are reading this and this fits your workflow, please try notes and let
me know if there is something that you would change in this.

## Thanks

I would start by thanking people who have contributed to core python3 packages
without the awesomeness of which I would not be able to write this. I have
also used `toml`, `click` and `sh` packages which did important things for
notes. Thanks all!

## Whats next?

**Speed**: I want to improve the speed of writing and saving notes and make this
more seemless and natural

**Code**: I want to improve the quality of code - tests, better patterns,
remove magic logic and add better exception handling

**Complexity**: As of now, notes is pretty small, minimal and functional. I
intend to keep it minimal and solve for better code. Using
[scc](https://github.com/boyter/scc) to find the SLOC, CLOC and COCOMO
estimates you would find that notes is pretty small.

```bash
scc notes.py setup.py secrets.toml .editorconfig .gitignore requirements.txt README.md
# ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
# Language                 Files     Lines   Blanks  Comments     Code Complexity
# ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
# Python                       2       279       24        58      197         13
# Markdown                     1       147       35         0      112          0
# Plain Text                   1         7        0         0        7          0
# TOML                         1         2        0         0        2          0
# gitignore                    1        13        4         4        5          0
# ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
# Total                        6       448       63        62      323         13
# ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
# Estimated Cost to Develop $8,246
# Estimated Schedule Effort 2.477815 months
# Estimated People Required 0.394225
# ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
```

I would write soon about the improvements and keep bumping minor versions for
notes. Stay safe and enjoy!
