+++
title = "next 3 months goals"
slug = "n3mg"
date = 2025-04-10
+++

I'm going to be 33 this year. These are interim goals till then. I want to
proclaim my goals and shout out it to the world so that when I review it in July
2025, I can reflect on my progress and make necessary adjustments. I believe
systems are better than goals but since I'm starting from blank slate, below
goals are directional for me to create new systems.

`0xC0NTENT: START`

Have a life insurance plan in India. Make a credible roadmap for **financial
freedom** - which investment, how much should I invest, how to start, how to
operate. Hire a CA and fix Indian financial profile. Make a dashboard to track
expense; create a method to budget similar to YNAB.

Start **System Shutdown Protocol** documentation with essential details and 
links to stuff.

**Read** 1 book in 2 weeks i.e. 6 books till Jun 2025. Get into the habit of
reading again.

**Write** the 3 most important TODOs on `worklog` everyday. Write weekly updates
every Friday at 12 noon till Jun 2025.

Read SICP till Jun 2025 and take notes; and create a credible roadmap to **Teach
Yourself CS**[^1].

**Program** an open source project with more than 20K+ lines of Python.

10 mins of **Piano** everyday with Sufi after work.

Start **tracking** 1 new habit for each calendar month i.e. 3 new habits till
Jun 2025. Track creation vs. consumption to check if you create more than you
consume.

## Update (2025-12-31)

I was 12.5% successful on my goals. I failed to achieve most of them but I've
got some great systems which came to existence because of this goaling exercise.
One of the books I read was Atomic Habits by James Clear and one of the lines
that stuck with me was:

> You do not rise to the level of your goals. You fall to the level of your
systems.

Systems that I've in place now
- Weekly review for financials and solve 1 problem each week (biggest one in the
list)
- Read after putting Sufi to bed for 10min at least
- Write worklog every morning first thing at work (or home when starting work)
- Piano whenever Sufi goes near Piano

Systems that I need to build
- Low-friction tracking of my systems and habits
- Breakdown system shutdown protocol
- How to learn? What to learn? And keep learning

EOF

[^1]: (https://teachyourselfcs.com/)
