+++
title = "future me will thank me for my dev setup!"
slug = "dev"
date = 2026-02-01
+++

[Prime's My Dev Setup Is Better Than Yours][1] stuck with me when I watched it
last year. Moral of the course (which is more a demo) is -- your setup is best
for you because *it's yours* - custom built for how you work. I tried
[mocking it][mockdev] with sparse commits here and there. The real kick was
changing jobs last year which means new laptop and new vigor to
create my "dev setup". Instead of bikeshedding and analysis paralysis, I went
brrr and built a workflow on shoulders of giants. This is production grade
software where production is "works on my machine :P".

Hence, with an obligatory XKCD reference, I tagged 1.0 for
[sudo make me a sandwich](https://github.com/hrmnjt/dev) i.e. my "dev setup"
which is working really well (for now). Hence, future Harman will thank current
`epoch: 1769955510` Harman, for organizing the dev setup and writing a few words
about it. In a nutshell:
- `brew bundle` manages the bottles and casks that I need
- `just` reduces the number of bash script needed
- `stow` manages the dotfiles

## choosing Homebrew and `brew bundle`

The first version of `dev` repo had install scripts which will pull the binaries
from internet and install them based on the type of binary that I would get. And
I was in for a treat when I was trying to install a `.dmg` or a `.pkg` file!
MacOS doesn't have an inbuilt programmatic approach to install compared to
`dpkg` or `apt` which I'm well versed with. MacOS wants its users to
deliberately do clickops to install and configure stuff. It was a jarring
experience overall and suddenly the script started looking crazy long full of
different conventions (a) no checksum (b) managing versions (c) validating
install after copying stuff (d) handle `.app` bundles or manage `.pkg`
installers. This reminded me of Flatpak/AppImage drama on Linux minus the
traction.

Meanwhile, on a daily basis I was still going strong with `brew install ...`
which was ergonomic, clean and simple. Although, there is a different issue with
Homebrew (a) I need to install that first (b) I had to create a mental model
around brew commands. I found myself using the manpage and `brew --help` too
often. `brew bundle` however can be used to install most tools - tui, cli, or
gui.

Homebrew isn't perfect - it's another dependency, and I need to memorize
commands - but wins on pragmatism: declarative and "it just (TM) works". Nix
seems to be the closest thing to "proper package management" on MacOS, but it's
solving a problem Apple doesn't want to solved, and has friction. Also, a steep
learning curve for me.


## `just` vs `make`

For this project, `just` and `make` are task-runners. I pick a project, work on
it and then leave it as is for months; when I come back, I've forgotten how to
do chores e.g. following. Task runners solve this problem.
- Do I need to update `Brewfile` first?
- Or should I install the tool with `brew install ...` and then check
if `Brewfile` is updated?
- That other time, I just installed `jq` and my `Brewfile` doesn't know I need
it always!
- How to bootstrap this new macbook? What steps did I take last time?

`make` is a build system which happens to work as a task runner. And for most
developer machines `make` is always present. For MacOS, `make` is present after
`xcode-select --install` --- which is the first thing most developers do after
getting a new Mac. Despite these merits, I didn't invest a lot of time and
effort into learning `make`. `just` was simple, easier and I had used it in
past. So, I went with `just` for this repo even though it requires an install.
In recent future, I wish to spend a weekend and learn `make` and its quirks
(I know some!) and ditch `just` for this project.


## stumbling upon `stow`

I've seen countless option for dotfile management. And I've seen so many
handrolled solutions to manage dotfiles. My requirement for dotfiles is very
simple i.e. copy the files to `XDG_CONFIG_HOME` (in my case `~/.config` dir). I
found `stow` in a HN thread and earmarked it to try when I want to do dotfiles.
I don't use 90% of things `stow` can do but what I needed was good enough and
very ergonomic.


## desires and wishes

There are many improvements which I've not detailed out quite. 2025 Harman would
have created a list of TODOs which would give him "Phantom Obligation"[^3].
Today, however, I'm choosing to dump my raw thoughts here and address it when it
becomes imminent.

[^3]: I read this amazing article about feed readers UX creating a sense of
urgency to read an article and coin the word that suits this behavior I've
demonstrated in past. [Phantom Obligation](https://www.terrygodier.com/phantom-obligation)


**Improvement 1: simpler bootstrap steps**

As of [02d2867][02d2867], the bootstrap requires me to install homebrew, install
`just` and `stow` using homebrew, clone this repo, define `XDG_CONFIG_HOME`[^1],
and install required software using `brew bundle` and configure most of them
with `stow`. That leaves out folder structure for Git and SSH key generation for
Github.

I want to learn `make`, and handroll a shell script to symlink `.config` as
first improvement. This would allow me to clone (public) Github repo with HTTPS
link in `/tmp` directory and go brr... with the setup. Since I don't buy a
Macbook so often, this improvement doesn't provide the ROI required.

[^1]: While writing this post I learned that, Apple/NeXTSTEP conventions
(circa:1989) predate XDG Base Directory specifications (circa:2003) and latter
was created to solve the chaos in Linux ecosystem and has community-driven
voluntary enforcement. I always found XDG Base Directory spec to be very
intuitive and wondered this is a MacOS quirk. Since, I run Linux on servers and
I'm forced to use MacOS at work, I want to follow this convention through and
through to reduce cognitive load.

**Improvement 2: make it work for my servers too**

I don't buy Macbooks too often, but I create and delete Linux servers couple of
times in a month. Right now, my setup implies only local setup and not servers.
I tried Claude Code on my server with a prompt to setup most common tools and it
did a good job of setting everything up. But it is non-deterministic and I get a
setup which is different from Macbook in different ways (each time) with same
prompt. Solving this problem would make me saner. In last 2 weeks, I've seen
several new services surface up providing ephemeral machines[^2] providing
amazing method to create and test a llm-based deterministic dev setup which can
merge with this repo.

[^2]: [exe.dev](https://exe.dev/) and [Sprites](https://sprites.dev/) are among
few such projects that seem super interesting to run (and re-run) dev setup
scripts and refine with ease.

**Improvement 3: master more tools**

I use `ripgrep`, `fzf`, `direnv` and many other applications but I use them raw.
I've not learnt all my tools. Good thing is the boilerplate for adding their
configuration already exists and when I become power-tool-ninja, I can start
managing them with current workflow.

**Improvement 4: smaller neovim configuration**

Right now, I use `kickstart.nvim` and I've been using it for some time. It is a
remnant of time when I was starting with neovim and was spending a lot of time
to make basic stuff work on vim. I understand neovim configuration enough now
that I don't need a monolith neovim configuration. However, I don't wish to make
neovim modular at first; I want to strip out all the unnecessary stuff out of
kickstart and get a feel for managing a config that I own and maintain. Again,
the ROI on this is not large and I don't want to do this right now.

**Improvement 5: Nix for package management** 

I'm parking Nix until I have a stronger reason to invest the learning time — or
until I switch to Arch.


[1]: https://frontendmasters.com/courses/developer-productivity-v2/introduction/
[mockdev]: https://github.com/hrmnjt/dev/tree/0.0.1
[02d2867]: https://github.com/hrmnjt/dev/tree/02d28676bf9fb39f83db61b80a7560914248bb8f


EOF